        Forsterite is a very important mineral to study in planetary science because it is the main component of the Earth’s upper mantle and expected to be a major component in the mantles of large rocky exoplanets. It is also very abundant in space, found in meteorites, comets, pre-solar grains, planetary surfaces, and accretion disks around young stars. On Earth, it may play a role in deep earthquake generation because the phase transitions of forsterite are the primary cause of seismic discontinuities at 410, 520, and 600 km depths. The phase transitions of forsterite under extreme conditions provides valuable insight into the formation, evolution, and habitability of rocky exoplanets. A planet’s thermal evolution, geochemistry, and magnetic field are all influenced by the freezing/solidification of its early magma ocean phase, where melting/crystallization is a very important process. Melting also plays a role in creating and shaping convection currents in interior magma oceans, which influence plate tectonics and magnetosphere production, factors essential to creating surface conditions that can support life. This experiment studies the high-pressure melt of forsterite to determine when incongruent melting occurs. Incongruent melting is when a solid substance partially melts into a chemically different liquid and solid, because the substance chemically decomposed and one of the products of this reaction re-crystalized. For example, in forsterite, incongruent melting caused by high pressures should produce magnesium oxide crystals. 〖Mg〗_2 SiO_(4 )(forsterite, solid) → MgSiO_3 (liquid) + MgO (solid). Results from this experiment can be used to add to and verify various theoretical models such as convection in the Earth’s mantle, magma oceans, extrasolar planet habitability, and collisions of terrestrial planets. 
        The extreme pressure conditions needed in these studies are generated using laser produced shock waves. There have been many laser shock wave compression experiments on forsterite, but evidence that might confirm the incongruent melt of forsterite has only been found in two studies, Sekine et al. (2016) and Newman (2018). However, the pressure range where this occurs is currently inconclusive. A previous study (Sekine, 2016) reports the shock compression of forsterite above 250 GPa by measuring the density of the sample. Slope changes in the Hugoniot were detected, which may be attributed to incongruent melting of forsterite at 271 to 285 GPa. However, a different study (Root, 2018) attempted to replicate these results, and did not find any slope changes in the Hugoniot or clear signs of phase transitions or phase separation above 200 GPa. This study then theorizes that the proposed range for incongruent melting provided in Sekine et al. (2016) is too high and should be further investigated in later experiments using X-ray diffraction, which gives a more accurate representation of the chemical composition of the sample. Lastly, a dissertation (Newman, 2018) used X-ray diffraction and found evidence that the incongruent melting of forsterite occurs from 150 to 195 GPa. This current experiment attempts to investigate the pressure range in which incongruent melting of forsterite occurs in laser compression experiments by conducting experiments at 150 and 260 GPa while using X-ray diffraction.

